# SigNoz Span Metrics Processor

Aggregates Request, Error and Duration (R.E.D) metrics from span data.

Metrics generated by this processor:
- signoz_calls_total
- signoz_latency_sum
- signoz_latency_count
- signoz_latency_bucket
- signoz_db_latency_sum
- signoz_db_latency_count
- signoz_external_call_latency_sum
- signoz_external_call_latency_count

**Request** counts are computed as the number of spans seen per unique set of dimensions, including Errors.
For example, the following metric shows 142 calls:
```
signoz_calls_total{http_status_code="200",operation="/Address",service_name="shippingservice",span_kind="SPAN_KIND_SERVER",status_code="STATUS_CODE_UNSET"} 142
```
Multiple metrics can be aggregated if, for instance, a user wishes to view call counts just on `service_name` and `operation`.

**Error** counts are computed from the Request counts which have an "Error" Status Code metric dimension.
For example, the following metric indicates 220 errors:
```
signoz_calls_total{http_status_code="503",operation="/checkout",service_name="frontend",span_kind="SPAN_KIND_CLIENT",status_code="STATUS_CODE_ERROR"} 220
```

**Duration** is computed from the difference between the span start and end times and inserted into the
relevant latency histogram time bucket for each unique set dimensions.
For example, the following latency buckets indicate the vast majority of spans (9K) have a 100ms latency:
```
signoz_latency_bucket{http_status_code="200",label1="value1",operation="/Address",service_name="shippingservice",span_kind="SPAN_KIND_SERVER",status_code="STATUS_CODE_UNSET",le="2"} 327
signoz_latency_bucket{http_status_code="200",label1="value1",operation="/Address",service_name="shippingservice",span_kind="SPAN_KIND_SERVER",status_code="STATUS_CODE_UNSET",le="6"} 751
signoz_latency_bucket{http_status_code="200",label1="value1",operation="/Address",service_name="shippingservice",span_kind="SPAN_KIND_SERVER",status_code="STATUS_CODE_UNSET",le="10"} 1195
signoz_latency_bucket{http_status_code="200",label1="value1",operation="/Address",service_name="shippingservice",span_kind="SPAN_KIND_SERVER",status_code="STATUS_CODE_UNSET",le="100"} 10180
signoz_latency_bucket{http_status_code="200",label1="value1",operation="/Address",service_name="shippingservice",span_kind="SPAN_KIND_SERVER",status_code="STATUS_CODE_UNSET",le="250"} 10180
...
```

Each metric will have _at least_ the following dimensions because they are common across all spans:
- Service name
- Operation
- Span kind
- Status code

This processor lets traces to continue through the pipeline unmodified.

The following settings are required:

- `metrics_exporter`: the name of the exporter that this processor will write metrics to. This exporter **must** be present in a pipeline.

The following settings can be optionally configured:

- `exclude_patterns`: the list of regex patterns to exclude while aggregating the span data.
  - Default: []
  - Example:
    ```
    ...
      exclude_patterns:
        - name: operation
        - pattern: *health*
    ...
    ```
- `latency_histogram_buckets`: the list of durations defining the latency histogram buckets.
  - Default: `[2ms, 4ms, 6ms, 8ms, 10ms, 50ms, 100ms, 200ms, 400ms, 800ms, 1s, 1400ms, 2s, 5s, 10s, 15s]`
- `dimensions`: the list of dimensions to add together with the default dimensions defined above.
  
  Each additional dimension is defined with a `name` which is looked up in the span's collection of attributes or
  resource attributes (AKA process tags) such as `ip`, `host.name` or `region`.
  
  If the `name`d attribute is missing in the span, the optional provided `default` is used.
  
  If no `default` is provided, this dimension will be **omitted** from the metric.
- `dimensions_cache_size`: the max items number of `metric_key_to_dimensions_cache`. If not provided, will
  use default value size `100000`.
- `aggregation_temporality`: Defines the aggregation temporality of the generated metrics. 
  One of either `AGGREGATION_TEMPORALITY_CUMULATIVE` or `AGGREGATION_TEMPORALITY_DELTA`.
  - Default: `AGGREGATION_TEMPORALITY_CUMULATIVE`
